Add documentation for Kinesis source in Data prepper (#8252)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/kinesis.md

---
layout: default
title: kinesis
parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 3
---

# kinesis

> You can use `kinesis` source in Data Prepper to ingest records from one or more [Amazon Kinesis](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/) Data Streams. 

Reviewer: Should we link here?

https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/data-streams/

And then update the anchor to surround all of "Amazon Kinesis Data Streams?"

Author: Thanks @dlvenable. I have made the changes.

## Usage

The following example pipeline specifies Kinesis as a source. The pipeline ingests data from multiple Kinesis data streams named `stream1` and `stream2` and sets the `initial_position` to indicate the starting point for reading the stream records:

```yaml
version: "2"
kinesis-pipeline:
  source:
    kinesis:
      streams:
        - stream_name: "stream1"
          initial_position: "LATEST"
        - stream_name: "stream2"
          initial_position: "LATEST"
      aws:
        region: "us-west-2"
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-iam-role"
```

## Configuration options

The `kinesis` source supports the following configuration options.

Option | Required | Type     | Description
:--- |:---------|:---------| :---
`aws` | Yes      | AWS      | Specifies the AWS configuration. See [`aws`](#aws).
`acknowledgments` | No       | Boolean  | When set to `true`, enables the `kinesis` source to receive [end-to-end acknowledgments]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines#end-to-end-acknowledgments) when events are received by OpenSearch sinks.

> `streams` | Yes      | List     | Configures a list of multiple Kinesis data streams that the Data Prepper `kinesis` source uses to read records. You can configure up to four streams. See [Streams](#streams).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`streams` | Yes      | List     | Configures a list of multiple Kinesis data streams that the `kinesis` source uses to read records. You can configure up to four streams. See [Streams](#streams).
```

`codec` | Yes      | Codec    | The [codec](#codec) to apply.
`buffer_timeout` | No       | Duration | The amount of time allowed for writing events to the Data Prepper buffer before timeout occurs. Any events that the source cannot write to the buffer during the specified amount of time are discarded. Default is `1s`.
`records_to_accumulate` | No       | Integer  | The number of messages that accumulate before being written to the buffer. Default is `100`.
`consumer_strategy` | No       | String   | Consumer strategy to use for ingesting Kinesis data streams. Default is `fan-out`. However, `polling` can also be used. if `polling` is enabled, additional configuration for `polling` will need to be added.

> `polling` | No       | String   | if `consumer_strategy` is set to `polling`, this config will need to be added. Refer to [polling](#polling).

Reviewer: The type here is `polling`. Please update the type column and have it link to the `polling` section below.

### `newline` codec

The `newline` codec parses each single line as a single log event. This is ideal where each Kinesis stream record is processed as a single line. It also matches well when used with the [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) processor to parse each line. 

Use the following options to configure the `newline` codec.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---
`skip_lines` | No | Integer | The number of lines to skip before creating events. You can use this configuration to skip common header rows. Default is `0`.
`header_destination` | No | String  | A key value to assign to the header line of the stream event. If this option is specified, then each event will contain a `header_destination` field.

### polling
Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---
`max_polling_records` | No | Integer | The number of records to fetch from Kinesis during a single call to get Kinesis stream records.

> `idle_time_between_reads` | No | Integer  | The time duration to sleep in between calls to get Kinesis stream records. 

Reviewer: This is a `Duration`, not an `Integer`.

Author: Thanks @dlvenable. I have made the changes.

## Permissions

You need the following minimum required permissions to run `kinesis` as a source: 

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "kinesis:DescribeStream",
        "kinesis:DescribeStreamConsumer",
        "kinesis:DescribeStreamSummary",
        "kinesis:GetRecords",
        "kinesis:GetShardIterator",
        "kinesis:ListShards",
        "kinesis:ListStreams",
        "kinesis:ListStreamConsumers",
        "kinesis:RegisterStreamConsumer",
        "kinesis:SubscribeToShard"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:kinesis:us-east-1:{account-id}:stream/stream1",
        "arn:aws:kinesis:us-east-1:{account-id}:stream/stream2"
      ]
    },
    {
      "Sid": "allowCreateTable",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "dynamodb:CreateTable",
        "dynamodb:PutItem",
        "dynamodb:DescribeTable",
        "dynamodb:DeleteItem",
        "dynamodb:GetItem",
        "dynamodb:Scan",
        "dynamodb:UpdateItem",
        "dynamodb:Query"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:{account-id}:table/kinesis-pipeline"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> The `kinesis` source in Data Prepper uses a DynamoDB table for ingestion coordination among multiple workers, so you need DynamoDB permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `kinesis` source uses a DynamoDB table for ingestion coordination among multiple workers, so you need DynamoDB permissions.
```

## Metrics

The `kinesis` source includes the following metrics.

### Counters

> * `recordsProcessed`: Counts the number of stream records processed from Kinesis streams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `recordsProcessed`: Counts the number of processed stream records.
```

> * `recordProcessingErrors`: Counts the number of processing errors for stream records from Kinesis streams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `recordProcessingErrors`: Counts the number of stream record processing errors.
```

> * `acknowledgementSetSuccesses`: Tracks the total number stream records processed that were successfully added to sink. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `acknowledgementSetSuccesses`: Counts the number of processed stream records that were successfully added to the sink. 
```

> * `acknowledgementSetFailures`: Tracks the total number stream records processed that failed to be added to sink.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `acknowledgementSetFailures`: Counts the number of processed stream records that failed to be added to the sink.
```

### Streams

Use the following options in the `streams` array.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- |:---------| :--- | :---
`stream_name` | Yes      | String | The name of each Kinesis stream.
`initial_position` | No       | String | The position from where `kinesis` source starts reading stream records. `LATEST` starts reading from the most recent stream record. `EARLIEST` starts reading from the begining of the stream. Default is `LATEST`.
`checkpoint_interval` | No       | Duration | Periodically checkpoint Kinesis streams to avoid duplication of record processing. Default is `PT2M`.
`compression` | No | String  | Specifies the compression format. To decompress records added by [CloudWatch subscription filter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/SubscriptionFilters.html) to Kinesis, use the `gzip` compression format.

## codec

The `codec` determines how the `kinesis` source parses each Amazon Kinesis Record. For increased and more efficient performance, you can use [codec combinations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/common-use-cases/codec-processor-combinations/) with certain processors.

> ### `newline` codec

Reviewer 3: Can we add JSON codec here?
